All right.
So we closed the last lesson off by observing a problem in our browser, and that was that each individual
text input component was keeping track of its own data, but there was no way for it to relay that change,
that update to its input to the parent job search form component.
So we talked earlier about this idea of limiting events in view, and that is how we solve this exact
problem, which is a child component, informing its parent that something has happened.
All right.
So let's take it one step at a time.
Here I am in my handle input method within my text input component.
And as I mentioned earlier, one of the advantages of using this more manual verbose approach compared
to the model is that we have a lot more customization.
Remodel is kind of take it or leave it.
Now we have our own custom method and we can do whatever we want in this method.
We're not just limited to overwriting our value data property.
We can do whatever we want, we can console.log, we can make an API call, etc. So we're not just limited
to one operation, we can do as much as we want.
So on this keyword, which represents the current view component, which is the text input component,
on this keyword we have access to a special method called Emit, and that method begins with a dollar
sign.
So it looks like this dollar sign.
Emit All right.
Now you may be a little bit off put or confused by this method name, but dollar sign is a normal character
to use in JavaScript.
It's a totally valid character to use anywhere in your variable or method names.
And earlier on we saw how we had the event object and it began with a dollar sign as well.
There is nothing special about the dollar sign.
It is a regular character, so you can treat it no differently than an A character or an E character.
Now you might have the response of Yeah, but I would never name something with a dollar sign in my
work.
And that's kind of the exact point or intention of the view developers here.
The View developers like to begin a lot of their view specific methods that they give to you with a
dollar sign, because it's a visual indicator that this is something special, this is something that
is exclusive to view.
You are highly unlikely as a developer to store a property on data or a computed property or a method
that begins with the dollar sign.
And for that exact reason, this is sort of your visual indicator that this is not a method that we
defined.
This is something that the View Library gives us out of the box and that allows them to differentiate
their code from ours.
So every single view component on the this keyword which represents this component, whatever you're
working with, whether it be in this case text input or if we use the this keyword in job search form,
it would be the job search form.
In addition to having things like the data properties on the this keyword view is also automatically
going to add a whole bunch of methods and other properties that specifically relate to view on the this
keyword.
One of them is this dollar sign emet method.
All right, so this is how it's available.
It's available on every single component automatically from view.
All right.
So it is a method.
So we're going to invoke it right here and we can provide up to two or more arguments to emit.
And what I mean by that, apologies for the confusion, is you typically will provide the first argument.
It is mandatory and that represents what we call the message name.
So you can almost think of emit like a radio broadcast tower and we're sending out a message to our
parent component, right?
We're relaying some kind of information.
And the first argument is sort of like the channel name.
It is the category.
It is sort of describing the perhaps the category under which the event falls, what exactly happened.
Right.
So it's a little bit confusing, but what we can put here is any string of our choice.
And this based represents the event that the parent is going to be able to react to.
All right.
It's kind of confusing.
I know.
But stick with me and I'll make sense in a lesson or two from now.
So I'm going to call this event, handle input.
So we're emitting a message.
We're sending out a signal to our parent, and we're going to call that signal handle input.
We're going to call this event handle input.
We can give it whatever name we want.
Okay?
And then after that, we can provide optional arguments, any amount of arguments that we want, and
that represents the data that we want to associate with this event, or in other words, the data that
we want to pass up to my parent component.
So right now I'm going to tell my parent component that something happened, an event occurred, and
I'm going to call that event handle input.
But what I also want to give to my parent is the actual current value that the user has just typed into
my text input component.
And of course we have that value in two locations.
We have it on our event object, but we also have it at this point on our actual value data property.
So right here I'm going to say this dot value.
You'll notice we're going to have a little bit of a s Lynn warning.
Don't worry.
We'll come back to this later.
But this is good enough for now.
So what this means is whenever we're going to interact with our text input component.
So in other words, when we're going to type a character, we're going to have this V on directive run,
which is going to invoke the handle input method.
So we're going to run this map method automatically and it is going to overwrite the components local
value data property, and then it's going to send a message up, it's going to send a message up to
the parent.
And the name of that message is handle input.
And the supplementary data or payload that is going to attach with that message is going to be the second
argument, and that is going to be the current value that is typed into the field.
Okay.
So we need to provide a name for the event and a name for the occurrence or the thing that just transpired,
and then an optional payload of information that we want to attach to that event.
All right.
That's been a lot to cover, but we're going to see how all of this makes sense in the next lesson,
where we're going to transition to our job search form and react to this new handle input event.